[Music]
there's no way around it Diddy Kong
Racing is the sweetest game I've ever
played now I know what you're thinking
sweet
you might mentally muse I like sweet
games that sounds pretty sweet but when
I tell you Diddy Kong Racing is the
sweetest game I've ever played I'm using
the term in a more literal sense than
you're assuming when I say Diddy Kong
Racing is sweet I'm describing the
sticky saccharine gloop from which this
game must have coalesced
it's almost nauseatingly adorable a
sugary and colorful racer featuring lots
of furry animals with big eyes and shiny
round noses honestly if a Diddy Kong
Racing cartridge had glided by gene
Wilder on a conveyer belt in Willy
Wonka's chocolate factory it wouldn't
have surprised me in the slightest this
game is that sweet and more so than an
Everlasting Gobstopper it makes you want
to brush your teeth afterward
developed by rare and released during
the 1997 holiday season diddy kong
racing is basically a Mario Kart clone
it features the same mascot based kart
racing as Nintendo's series making the
comparisons as obvious as they are
legitimate yet as recycled as rares game
may seem diddy kong racing also
distinguishes itself with a few
innovations
unlike mario kart rares racers built
around a much more coherent and
ambitious single-player mode complete
with different worlds boss battles and
absurd as it may be a story there's an
evil pig and a walrus named bluey I'd go
into more detail but I'd vomit
obnoxiously cute as its premise maybe it
all comes together for a really cohesive
and strategic single-player experience
the game's 30 tracks span 5 worlds
linked by a hub like overworld and as
you successfully complete races and
tasks ranging from imposing boss races
to silver coin challenges and trophy
races you'll unlock new worlds and
racetracks it's an impressive
improvement over mario karts lackluster
single-player offering and provided you
can stomach the overwhelming cuteness
Diddy Kong Racing is actually more
enjoyable to
[Music]
at least it is if you're driving solo
when it comes to multiplayer rares
offering just can't match the immense
lasting appeal provided by Mario but
what it lacks in multiplayer it makes up
for in other areas Diddy Kong Racing is
much better-looking than mario kart 64
featuring plenty of then advanced visual
techniques which really bring the game
to life the game animates beautifully
and although the intense colors and cute
character designs may be tough for some
to swallow they look fantastic the
addition of a plane and hovercraft is
selectable vehicles also adds gameplay
depth where other kart racers mario kart
64 included come up short
despite the gameplay depth and visual
flair however I can't help but wonder if
a kart racer really needs to be this
focused on single-player this kind of
game should be better with friends but
regrettably the opposite is true of the
otherwise excellent Diddy Kong Racing
play it most definitely but when friends
are over play Mario Kart instead
[Applause]
you